---
layout: post
title: "The powers of tmux"
description: "Run multiple terminals at once or looking for a screen alternative? Try tmux to take control of the cmd prompt."
tags: [sysadmin]
image:
  feature: IMG_0057.jpg
  credit: Aaron Addleman
comments: true
share: true
---


For people who use the terminal on a daily basis, multiple terminals really help. Over time we start to have a certain setup that we call home for multiple reasons: debugging, application development, configuring, etc... This is where tmux comes in. Sure there is also the program called "screen" but thats for another [post](/articles/screen-cheat-sheet).

## Cool stuff

    C-a : setw synchronize-pages on
    C-a "

This will sync all of the pages on a window to allow you setting up multiple terminal sessions with the same commands. This is helpful when you want to have multiple terminals login to the same box (Perhaps for editing a config file and another terminal for stoping or starting services. Throw in another one for monitoring logs.)

## Installation

At the time of this article, I had to have ruby 1.9.3 to install tmux by using the following command:

    yum install tmux

## To get help

If you are ever stuck and cannot remember a command, the following can help you out:

    C-b ?

Press `q` to quit out of help. Will list all of the commands.

    C-b :

Will allow you to type in a command and supports tab completion.

## Simple stuff

### Detaching

`C-b d`

### Reattaching

    tmux attach
    tmux attach-session

## Windows

`C-b w`     Allows you to choose a window interactively.

`C-b n`     Moves to the next window.

`C-b p`     Moves to the previous window.

`C-b x`     Kills the current pane with a prompt of yes or no.

`C-b {`     Swap current pane with the previous one.

`C-b }`     Swap current pane with the next one.

`C-b w`     List windows

`C-b '`     Splits a window horizontally

`C-b %`     Splits a window vertically